# dump1090-fa-tools
Scripts and things for manipulating the json files generated by FlightAware's version of dump1090. Mostly command line.

## Requirements
- a command line
- python
- ncurses

## The Scripts

### overhead1090-fa
Tells you the ICAO (hex) and flight number of the closest aircraft to your Site (lat/lon is user configurable). A delightfully crude ncurses PFD (primary flight display) metaphor is used to indicate other informations such as squawk, altitude, speed, heading, etc.
Most interesting, the script calculates the compass bearing of the aircraft from your Site, so you know which direction to look for it.
A second mode shows a list of the 20 aircraft nearest your site, sorted by distance from Site.
A third "marquee" mode simply flashes the flight number in the center of the screen... so that you can set up a monitor in your back yard and see in only what is flight over you at the very moment.

### dx1090-fa
Tells you the ICAO (hex) and flight number of the farthest aircraft to your Site (lat/lon is user configurable). A delightfully crude ncurses PFD (primary flight display) metaphor is used to indicate other informations such as squawk, altitude, speed, heading, etc.
Most interesting, the script calculates the compass bearing of the aircraft from your Site, so you know which direction to look for it.
A second mode shows a list of the 20 aircraft farthest from your site, sorted by distance from Site. For distance, this is probably the most useful feature as you can see a list of distant contacts and enjoying "dx-ing" like that ham radio folk do.
